First officer's personal log,
stardate 49005.3.
CHAKOTAY:
The captain has granted me
the use of a shuttlecraft
perform the Pakra--
so that I may
commemorating the anniversary
a solitary ritual
of my father's death.
A-koo-chee-moya.
I pray on this day of memories
to speak to my father--
the one whom the wind
called Kolopak.
Though I am far from his bones,
perhaps there is a spirit
in these unnamed skies
who will find him
and honor him with my song.
A-koo-chee-moya.
There. You see?
We should teach
them the price
markings in our space.
of displaying their
I'll go.
Let Kar do it this time.
He thinks he is.
He's not ready.
He's been demanding
a chance for weeks
to earn his name.
Do you really believe
he could do this?
you knew you were ready
Can you honestly say
for your first mission,
Haliz?
Tell him. Tell him
today's the day
he will finally
be called Ogla.
( phasers blasting )
has sustained phaser fire.
The shuttlecraft
COMPUTER:
Minor damage to aft shields.
Source?
closing at 195, mark 6.
A Kazon spacecraft,
Computer, open a channel
to the Kazon vessel.
This is Commander Chakotay
of the Federation
starship Voyager.
Why have you fired on me?
You are in Kazon-Ogla space,
Federation.
I have no hostile intentions.
I wasn't aware of that.
Power down your weapons
and I'll leave.
No one who violates
Ogla space leaves.
Look, son, my starship is only
a few light years away.
I am not your son,
Federation.
I am your executioner.
( phasers blasting )
Chakotay to Kazon vessel.
Listen carefully.
I do not want a fight.
Stand down, or I'll be
forced to return fire.
( phasers blasting )
Chakotay to Kazon vessel.
I have established
a direct weapons lock
on your engine core.
This is my final warning.
I will destroy your ship.
If you don't stand down,
All right.
you want to play it.
If that's the way
Chakotay to Kazon vessel.
Do you read me?
are there any life signs
Computer,
inside the Kazon vessel?
Affirmative. One life sign.
your engine core is critical.
Kazon ship,
You have less than 30 seconds to
evacuate.
Do you read me?
If you have an escape pod,
you must eject now.
Computer, establish
a transporter lock
on the life-form.
Targeting scanners.
Acknowledged.
Prepare to beam him aboard.
Scanners locked.
Energize.
Chakotay to Voyager.
Computer, damage report.
Long-range communications,
lateral sensor array
and aft shields are off-line.
Great!
Welcome aboard.
It's not that I feel
making contributions
that i'm not
as chef and morale officer.
You're making significant
contributions, Neelix.
Well, if you insist, but...
I can't imagine how
Lieutenant Ayala
would be handling
the separation
from his children
without you.
He misses his boys terribly.
I wish I could do more for him.
And your meals
are getting to be...
yes?
Almost certainly...
a highlight of every day.
Oh, Captain!
how to touch one's heart.
You always know
Thank you.
When I signed on
I promised you that...
that I would stand by your side
I promised you
this quadrant has to offer--
through every danger
as strategist
as guide,
as adventurer...
as explorer,
Yes?
I feel...
under-utilized.
with the best of them.
I can swashbuckle
You weren't invited
to the holodeck defense
simulations, were you?
No!
Captain, you are needed
on the bridge.
TUVOK:
On my way. I'll see to it
you're invited next time.
And now, Mr. Neelix, please--
join me on the bridge.
ma'am... captain.
Yes, sir...
We are ready to depart.
However, Commander Chakotay
has still not returned.
Have you tried
hailing him?
On all frequencies,
no response.
When was the last time
we heard from him?
More than six hours ago.
Well, according to
his flight plan
he's not far.
We'll just have
to go get him.
I want all away teams
back on board now.
plot a course
Mr. Paris,
last known coordinates.
for Chakotay's
Aye, captain.
( grunting )
What am I doing here?
You're welcome.
What?
It's a human expression.
You thank me for
saving your life
I say, "you're welcome."
( yelling )
I accept your surrender.
Look! I promise you,
as soon
as we get back to Voyager
we'll find a Kazon ship
and hand you over them.
You should have let me die.
I'm not in the habit
of killing children.
approaching at 022 mark 8.
Warning. Alien vessel
COMPUTER:
What's your name, son?
What?
Your name?
Why do you want
to know my name?
I want to let them know
you're on board.
I'm called Kar.
Computer open
a channel.
Kazon vessel, I have a young man
on board you might know.
He goes by the name of Kar.
he's about 13.
I'd say
I'd like to arrange
for his transfer
before I return to my ship.
Computer, confirm
channel is open.
Transmission has been received.
Confirmed.
Tell them you're okay.
Talk to them.
has engaged a tractor beam.
Warning. Kazon vessel
Full reverse.
Unable to comply.
available engine power.
Tractor force exceeds
They're pulling us in.
Kill me.
Please!
Why are you so eager
for me to kill you?
than being killed by your enemy.
Because there are worse things
Look, if you check your
long-range sensors.
CHAKOTAY:
out there.
You'll find a big ship
It's called Voyager, and by now,
it's on its way to find me.
Kar. I told Razik
you weren't ready.
I have a fair idea
of why I'm here
doing this to you?
but why are they
I was ready, Haliz.
Ready to kill or die.
I felt the flames
touch my skin.
Go back in, Kar.
It was this fool.
who doesn't even have
This... Federation,
the courage to kill
his enemies.
He pulled me out
with that transporter
we've heard about.
and Relora before you...
Like the Nistrim
showing off your uniforms
you come into our space,
and displaying the markings
of your Federation
with no respect
this part of space.
as if you own
But it belongs to us!
I tried to kill him Haliz!
( grunts )
( weapon cocking )
I want to see Razik.
I demand to see him.
Tell Razik
Who's Razik?
You tell this Razik
Chakotay demands to see him.
that Federation Commander
What are you doing?
Razik is obviously your leader.
I'm hoping if he's strong
enough to be in command
to listen to reason.
he's wise enough
( laughing )
You see this?
from a Nistrim frigate.
This is debris
The man you are demanding
to see destroyed it
killing more than 100
in a single shot.
name was only Ra.
Before that, his
Now he is called Jal Razik.
And this tunic belonged
to a Relora warrior.
by the bare hands
He was killed
called only Hali.
of another Ogla,
called Jal Haliz
Now that man is
greatest fighters.
one of our
And this bracelet belonged
who killed my brother.
to the man
My brother, Jal Kinell...
by dying bravely in battle
who earned his Ogla name
but I... I will never earn
my name in life or in death
to thank for that.
and I have you
last known coordinates, captain.
We're approaching Chakotay's
Full sensor scan, Mr. Kim.
All stop.
floating debris
I'm picking up
duranium, magnesite
composed of
and electroceramics.
of carbon residue.
Also heavy traces
engineering.
Bridge to
Prepare to receive debris
samples for analysis.
Aye, captain.
TORRES:
Transport complete.
Captain, I am detecting
an ion trail leading away
from this location.
Chakotay's shuttle?
The signature of the radiation
is not consistent
propulsion systems.
with Federation
So what are we saying here?
PARIS:
That someone blew up Chakotay's
shuttle and then took off?
That's speculation, Mr. Paris
the only clue we have
but that trail's
to Chakotay's
whereabouts.
Laying in a course.
Engage.
Hello, Kar.
I would see you like this.
I never thought
It was not my fault.
It was his technology.
Don't make excuses, Kar.
An Ogla has no room
for excuses.
No. No excuses.
I forgive you.
Know that in your heart.
No, please...
( anguished moan )
at my right hand tonight.
You will eat
RAZIK:
Why did you save him?
It's a very ineffective
way of waging war.
I'm not at war with you.
I wish I could
say the same.
with this part of space.
We're not familiar
If I'd seen a map identifying
this as Kazon-Ogla territory
I wouldn't have been
anywhere near it.
Unfortunately our territorial
claims change every day.
serve us well.
Maps do not
You did him a great disservice,
you know.
I guess if he
had killed me
my uniform would have made
you all a fine trophy.
Your uniform may yet
decorate our wall.
You may not think
Federation Commander Chakotay
you're at war with us,
but everything you are
is a threat to us.
The Kazon fought long and hard
from uniforms like yours.
for their independence
but not like mine.
Uniforms, maybe,
Your uniforms, your laws,
your technology.
You are not welcome here.
Get him something to eat.
The execution is tonight.
JANEWAY:
Well?
Most of the debris
we've examined
a polyduranide alloy
is composed of
in the construction
which isn't used
of Federation spacecraft.
shuttle that was destroyed.
So it wasn't Chakotay's
This ship was Kazon.
involved young, Haliz.
You get them
they're old enough
As soon as
younger siblings.
to protect their
So they brought you here
to see your first human.
Take a good look--
any hate in my eyes.
you won't see
from a gentle people
I'm a gentle man
who wish you no harm.
That's enough!
RAZIK:
to hate me, Razik, but I want
I know you'd like them
of humans to be a good one.
their first impression
You've been brought here
to learn what it means
to be a Kazon male.
You all know Kar.
to fight together
You've learned
haven't you?
to kill this man
Kar was sent
to earn his Ogla name
and will not earn his name
but Kar failed
even in death.
Who would be willing
to kill the human?
So much for first impressions,
Federation.
I'm proud of you.
your chance someday.
Each will get
we're here for today.
But that's not what
the price of failure in battle.
We are here to learn
Take it.
What for?
So you can kill Kar as you
should have done in battle.
You want me to kill a child
in front of other children.
What would it accomplish?
It will teach these little boys
an important lesson.
And after you do that,
you'll be free to go.
I want your friend Kar to die
You may think
but you'd be wrong.
I've seen too many Ogla die
at the hands of our enemies.
you must learn there are
That is why
no second chances in battle.
That is why Kar must die.
If I refuse?
( weapons cocking )
I'll be needing
my shuttle back.
Do you really think
you can escape us
in the little vessel of yours?
I'm willing to take.
That's a chance
What about you?
Let the coward run.
Prepare his shuttle.
Want to come?
to be much of a future
There doesn't seem
for you here.
He'd rather die than run
like a Calogan dog with you,
Federation.
I'll die without a name
If I stay here,
and Razik taught me only cowards
die without a name.
You won't find your name running
after the Federation, Kar.
Maybe not, but that's a chance
I'm willing to take.
I'll show you how to disable
the weapons system.
be all right?
Will Razik
He's only stunned.
Don't worry.
( weapons blasting )
Didn't take them long
back on line, did it?
to get those weapons
prepare to go to warp.
Computer,
clumsier at lower speeds.
No. Their ship is much
to outmaneuver them.
We should try
You're the boss.
Initiate evasive pattern
theta two. Full impulse.
the shield frequencies
I can give you
of their ship.
We can hit them
back easily.
It may mean something to you
to die a violent death
but I'd like to get out of this
without killing
or being killed.
sleep a wrinkled old man?
You'd rather die in your
Sounds about right.
Computer, damage report.
Aft shields at 63%.
to make it like this.
We're not going
an M-Class atmosphere.
Computer, scan for
There is an M-Class moon
at bearing 108, mark 18.
Distance 1.9 million kilometers.
That's Tarok.
Where the Ogla conduct
training exercises.
Anybody training
there now?
Computer, lay in a course
to the moon.
Evasive pattern omega one.
Maximum impulse.
Warning: aft shields
have been penetrated.
for long-range transport.
Computer, prepare
Two to beam to the surface.
Transport is not recommended.
The moon is out
of safety range.
is beginning to dissipate.
Captain, the ion trail
TUVOK:
All stop.
I'm picking up debris again.
KIM:
More duranium, magnesite,
carbon residue...
it's the remnants
of another ship.
Bridge to engineering.
Lieutenant Torres, prepare to
receive another debris sample.
Acknowledged.
TORRES:
Transport underway.
KIM:
[TRANSPORTERS SOUNDING]
Torres to bridge.
Sample received.
Let me know when you've
got something, B'Elanna.
JANEWAY:
I've got something right now.
of Chakotay's shuttle.
It's a piece
( sighs )
( groaning )
Kar...
It worked?
The computer said the transport
wasn't recommended.
it was impossible.
Didn't say
With any luck
didn't survive the explosion
Razik will think we
then maybe you'll get your
name for dying in battle.
In battle?!
That wasn't a battle!
We didn't even
shoot back.
And now I'm stranded here.
With you.
Yes, you're stranded
here with me
and I'm stranded here with you
that escapes me at the moment
because for some reason
I keep saving your life.
hate me for that, fine.
Now if you want to
But I'd really appreciate it
if you kept it to yourself.
To yourself!
You...
to do is find some shelter
First thing we've got
and get out of this heat.
Any suggestions?
finally beginning
I think we're
to understand each other.
what you're doing.
You don't know
What did I just say?
Get down.
What the hell was that?
A proton beam.
They're hidden
everywhere
along with biomagnetic traps
and disrupter snares.
Charming.
I told you.
The Ogla train
on this moon.
I was here myself
last year...
with Razik.
So I guess you know
your way around.
I know that you're
in my territory
and if you want to live to
become that wrinkled old man
you' going to have
to do what I say.
you just saved my life.
Well, it looks like
Twice more and we'll be even.
I've finished analyzing
the shuttle debris
and I found no evidence
of human remains.
wasn't killed in the explosion.
Then it's possible Chakotay
That is correct.
That's the first good news
I've heard all day.
My pleasure.
Thank you, doctor.
someone transport this junk
Now, would you mind having
to the cargo bay.
It's cluttering up my lab.
Of course, doctor.
JANEWAY:
Chakotay wasn't in the shuttle,
All right then. If commander
where is he?
pattern of the debris
From the dispersal
we've been able to extrapolate
Chakotay's course
prior to the explosion.
It appears
he was heading
for an M-Class moon
in this system.
And we found a resual
energy displacement
within the debris field
with the explosion itself.
that isn't consistent
You think he transported
to that moon.
We tried to scan
the surface
radiothermic interference.
but there is intense
Radiothermic?
subterranean energy sources--
It appears to be coming from
several carefully hidden
weapons systems--
phaser banks, force fields,
proton dischargers.
Kazon.
KES:
When they captured me I saw how
they concealed their weaponry.
I believe you call them
"booby traps."
then this moon is some kind
of Kazon fortification.
Or it may simply be
a training site.
live ammunition
For the Kazon,
is a very effective
teaching tool.
of evidence to the contrary
In the absence
Chakotay made it to that moon.
I choose to believe
see if you can determine
Mr. Kim,
the most probable location
he would've beamed to.
will lead the away team.
Lieutenant, you and I
As you wish, captain,
but I must point out
that due to radiothermic
interference,
we will not be communicate
able to with the ship.
I'm already working
on a dampening field
the interference
to cut through
several hours, at least.
but it'll take
that long, but keep trying.
I don't want to wait
our two Kazon experts.
Neelix, Kes, you are
with Tuvok and me.
Kes, you'll come
you wanted more to do.
Neelix, you said
Well, now's your chance.
I want you on the bridge
with Mr. Paris
in case we run into
any Kazon ships.
Don't worry, captain.
You can count on me
nefarious Kazon at bay.
to keep those
Dismissed.
What are you doing?
I'm setting my tricorder
to emit a homing signal.
What for?
So when my people show up
they'll know where
to look for me.
They won't come.
They'll think
you're dead.
They're very persistent.
they haven't given up on me.
I'm betting
Maybe I should kill you
and deliver it to my people.
and steal your technology
to give me my name.
Then they'd have
You just won't give up,
will you?
You won't stop me from earning
my name, Federation.
Not Federation.
Chakotay.
That's my name.
( tricorder beeping )
Did you have to earn it?
No. Not exactly.
Then your name means nothing.
My name was a gift...
from my tribe.
every day of my life
I cherish it
the Federation uniform.
just as I cherish
because you wear that uniform.
I should respect you
my uniform--
Your name,
not much difference.
We both have
to earn them.
What did you have to do
to earn your uniform?
Study.
Years of study.
and ships and navigation.
Learning about science
I suppose they don't expect you
to prove your battle skills.
defend ourselves in battle.
No. They prepared us to
They prepared
us very well
many difficult tests
and we had to pass
right to wear the uniform.
before we were given the
You're saying that my
name and your uniform
mean the same thing,
but you're wrong.
Why?
What's so different
about us?
Aside from the fact that
I keep saving your life
and you keep threatening
to kill me?
I must protect
my territory.
Territory is power.
you something.
Let me tell
territory or anybody else's.
I have no interest in your
a man does not own land.
My people taught me
He doesn't own anything
loyalty in his heart.
but the courage and
power comes from.
That's where my
I think we both could use
some sleep, don't you?
( soft beeping )
( beeping )
raider approaching
I've got a Kazon
at bearing 288 mark 9.
On screen.
Open a channel.
I'm lieutenant Tom Paris
of the starship Voyager.
Jal Razik, first Maje
of the Kazon-Ogla.
I will speak to your captain.
I'm in command right now,
so you can speak to me.
You are trespassing
in Ogla space.
Why do you orbit our moon?
Just stopped to make
a few repairs.
We'll be on our way in no time.
That is a lie.
your Commander Chakotay.
You are looking for
you know about that?
Now, how would
we killed him.
Quite simply
Under what circumstances?
He kidnapped a young man.
During his escape
it became necessary
to destroy his ship.
found the remains.
No doubt you've
So I suggest you depart
immediately.
Thanks for the advice.
unusual offer.
What a most
NEELIX:
A Kazon-Ogla Maje
to leave his space unharmed.
allowing a trespasser
What would the other Kazon
say about
this new merciful attitude
of the Ogla?
Don't tempt me, Talaxian.
I would just as soon open fire.
Would you?
NEELIX:
Neelix...
No, I don't think so.
every rival Kazon sect
That would attract
to your secret training base,
wouldn't it?
your ships, Maje.
Now, I know
I even sold a few plaxan sensors
to the Ogla a few years back.
I have no doubt
that you read
on that moon that we have.
the same life signs
Perhaps one of those life signs
belongs to your captain.
the extensive weaponry
If you've detected
deployed on the moon,
know this:
With one remote command,
I can cause that weaponry
destroying the surface
to self-destruct,
and everyone on it.
of the moon
Neither of us wants that, do we?
Think of the cost of replacing
all those weapons.
Awfully hard to come by
in this region.
so vulnerable to your enemies.
And it would make you
as soon as we've retrieved
We'll leave
PARIS:
our crewmen-- all of them
including Chakotay,
if he's alive.
And if one of your people
is with him
he'll be returned to you.
into a lower orbit
They're moving
KIM:
looks like they're intending to
enter the atmosphere.
the surface, B'Elanna and soon.
I need communication with
I still haven't been able to get
the dampening field working.
I can't even give you
an estimate.
Should we take Voyager down?
I've already run
a soil analysis.
The surface won't support
a landing.
Then I guess the captain's
going to be greeted
by some unexpected visitors.
we bought her some time.
At least
Good morning.
How did you sleep?
Fine.
Really?
You seemed a little
restless to me.
What do you mean?
All that skulking around
throwing things.
You were awake?
You think I'm going
to get much sleep
around an Ogla warrior who's
threatened to kill me?
go through with it?
Why didn't you
I am a coward.
I don't believe that.
I don't believe you do, either.
I think maybe you're beginning
to realize I'm not your enemy
would kill a friend.
and only a fool
If you are my friend...
then you're my only one.
What happens to me now?
Where do I go?
Would any other Kazon sect
accept you?
I would be a goven,
an outcast.
would cut one digit off
Each Kazon sect I meet
and send me away.
How many Kazon sects
are there?
It changes every day.
Yesterday there were 18.
I guess you could
come with us.
Dress in a uniform?
To do what?
You wouldn't have
to wear a uniform.
And the closer you'd get
to your home
the farther I would be
from mine.
If only you had killed me.
Captain, four life-forms
approaching.
40 meters.
They appear to be Kazon.
Please, put your weapons away.
We've come to help you.
Help us? With what?
We made contact
with your ship
and learned of the plight of
your missing crewman.
assistance in finding him.
We've come to offer our
That's very kind of you.
on dangerous ground.
You're walking
There are concealed
weapons everywhere.
Come. We will lead
you through them.
Very well.
the other uniforms--
Tell me about
Kazons fought.
the ones the
The trabe.
shared their homeworld
The Kazon
if you can call it sharing.
They had everything;
We had nothing--
until we took it from them
in the revolt 26 years ago.
( tricorder beeps )
What is it?
People coming this way.
Humans and Kazon.
What are we going to do?
There's only one way back
to the Ogla for you
and that's if you
earn your name.
So I guess that's what
you'll have to do.
But how?
You're going to
have to kill me.
The signal seems to be coming
from some caves
approximately 40 meters ahead.
continues to amaze us.
Your technology
It would have taken us
weeks to track them.
we have to discuss an alliance.
After this is over,
your friendship, Maje.
I would welcome
JANEWAY:
Captain Janeway, I'm reading
elevated radiothermic
levels here.
The Ocampa female is correct.
This is a particularly
dangerous place.
We lose many trainees here.
Perhaps you would prefer
if we preeded alone.
They can't be far now.
we'll stick together.
Thanks, but I think
Voyager to away team.
PARIS:
We're here, Mr. Paris.
the interference, captain.
We finally broke through
Are you all right?
We had a run-in...
Everything is fine. We have
the assistance of the Ogla.
That's what I was going
to tell you to expect.
to Commander Chakotay?
Can you lock on
Stand by.
Voyager to Chakotay,
do you read?
I'm fine, Paris.
CHAKOTAY:
to beam you out of there.
Stand by for us
Belay that, Voyager. Stand by.
According to my readings
only 50 meters away.
the away team's
Right, but...
for a code white resuscitation.
and alert sick bay
Did you say "code white"?
Correct.
I don't have time
to explain now.
Chakotay out.
Our technology can revive me
It'll be alright.
even if I'm brain-dead
for two minutes.
Why are you doing this?
Like you said it's my fault
you don't have your name.
I can't leave you
behind like this.
Chakotay to away team.
Good to hear your
voice, commander.
Captain, proceed with caution.
I have been taken prisoner
by a young Kazon.
He's threaning to kill me.
This way.
It's safer.
I would beg to differ.
Based on these readings
that way would seem
the logical choice.
I must apologize
for my comrade.
I believe he's trying
to mislead you.
is not always an ally.
So your technology
betrays you. Pity.
Sometimes it
you would not score well
I'm afraid
on our training exercises.
Away team to Voyager.
is a micro-generator.
Captain, that panel
KES:
can get a narrow beam
You're right. If we
JANEWAY:
through the field,
we can disable it.
We could try remodulating
the phasers
frequency output.
to a higher-
Make it fast.
I've been waiting
for you, Razik.
So, the Federation commander
is your prisoner.
RAZIK:
I only came with him
so I could have another
chance to kill him.
So you could earn your name.
I've been hoping for, Razik.
That's what
But you taught me well.
I know what you're going to say.
so many times before.
You've said it
In battle there are
no second chances.
But you are not my enemy.
He is.
( groans )
Kazon-Ogla.
My name is Jal Karden,
You are first Maje
now, Haliz.
My life is yours.
Kill me if you wish
or let me live and I will
follow you into battle
whenever you command.
Jal Karden.
Kazon-Ogla.
does not belong here.
The Federation
I will not hesitate to kill you.
If we meet again,
I understand.
Janeway to Voyager.
Five to beam up.
A-koo-chee-moya.
I pray on this day of memories
to speak to my father
the one whom the wind
called Kolopak.
Father, if you can hear me
among these unnamed stars
I ask you to continue
to watch over me
as you've always done.
I ask you also to watch over
a boy called Karden
who has a difficult path
to travel.
A-koo-chee-moya.